lab02-06 replace masters (#18)
acend/openshift-4-ops-training: content/en/docs/02/06_masters.md

sectionnumber: 2.6
---

> In this lab we will learn how to replace a failed master node. As long as we do not lose the majority of out master nodes, we can simply replace the failed master node(s). If we lose our quorum, we need to restore the state of `etcd` from a previously created snapshot, which will not be covered in this lab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this lab we will learn how to replace a failed master node. As long as we do not lose the majority of our masters, we can simply replace those that failed. If we lose the majority (e.g. 2 out of 3), we need to restore the state of `etcd` from a previously created snapshot, which will not be covered in this lab.
```

## Task {{% param sectionnumber %}}.1: Replacing a master node

> Since the master nodes are hosting the `etcd` it is not as straight forward as replacing a worker node backed by a MachineSet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the masters are hosting `etcd`, the key-value store that holds all the cluster's information and state, it is not as straightforward as replacing a worker node backed by a machine set.
```

| 2c53f4526118a2eb | started | ip-10-0-184-171.eu-north-1.compute.internal | https://10.0.184.171:2380 | https://10.0.184.171:2379 |      false |
| 43997d8a75197361 | started |  ip-10-0-212-27.eu-north-1.compute.internal |  https://10.0.212.27:2380 |  https://10.0.212.27:2379 |      false |
+------------------+---------+---------------------------------------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+------------+
```

Remove the old peer entry.

```bash
etcdctl member remove <id>
```

Verify the member was removed:

```bash
etcdctl member list -w table
```

You can disconnect from the pod at this point.

The `etcd` operator should automatically scale up a new member and add it to the cluster.

Verify that three `etcd` pods are up and running:

```etcd
oc -n openshift-etcd get pods -l etcd
```

{{% alert title="Note" color="secondary" %}}
If only two pods are running, you can force a redeployment:

```bash
oc patch etcd cluster \
  -p='{"spec": {"forceRedeploymentReason": "recovery-'"$( date --rfc-3339=ns )"'"}}' \
  --type=merge
```

{{% /alert %}}

> All that is left to do, is clean up the old secrets that are not used anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All that is left to do is clean up the old secrets that are not used anymore.
```
